# Pasta with Spicy Sausage

Source: NYTimes

<table class="tg"><thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky" colspan="2"><span style="font-weight:bold">Nutrition</span></th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Calories</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">768</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">33g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Saturated Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">12g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Monounsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">14g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Polyunsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">5g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Carbohydrates</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">82g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Fibre</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">11g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Sugar</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Protien</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">34g</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Ingredients (6 Servings)
- 680g broccoli rabe or broccoli, chopped, tough stems discarded, or hearty greens like kale or escarole
- 450g shaped pasta, such as campanelle or orecchiette
- 2 tablespoons olive oil
- 450g hot Italian sausage, casings removed, or sweet Italian sausage, ground pork or turkey
- 3 garlic cloves, minced (about 1 tablespoon)
- 1 glass dry white wine or chicken stock
- 1 can chickpeas or other white beans, rinsed and drained
- 2 tablespoons unsalted butter
- 50g grated Parmesan or pecorino, plus more for serving
- 1 lemon, zested and juiced

### Ingredients (1 Serving)
- 110g broccoli rabe or broccoli, chopped, tough stems discarded, or hearty greens like kale or escarole
- 80g shaped pasta, such as campanelle or orecchiette
- 1tsp olive oil
- 80g hot Italian sausage, casings removed, or sweet Italian sausage, ground pork or turkey
- 1 garlic clove, minced 
- 1 glass dry white wine or chicken stock
- 2tbsp chickpeas or other white beans, rinsed and drained
- 1tsp unsalted butter
- 10g grated Parmesan or pecorino, plus more for serving
- 1 lemon, zested and juiced

### Method
- Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Roughly chop the broccoli rabe, add it to the pot, and cook for 3 minutes. Use a sieve or slotted spoon to lift the broccoli rabe from the water and place it in a colander to drain.

- Bring the water back to a boil. Cook the pasta according to package instructions until al dente, reserve 1 cup​ pasta water, then drain pasta.

- Meanwhile, in a large Dutch oven or deep, 12-inch​ skillet, heat the olive oil over medium-high. Add the sausage and cook, breaking it up with a wooden spoon, until browned, 3 to 5 minutes. (Don’t worry if the sausage is not completely cooked through.) Add the garlic and cook for 30 seconds.

- Add the wine and cook, scraping any bits from the bottom of the pan, until the wine is reduced by half, about 1 minute.

- Add the broccoli rabe, chickpeas, 1 teaspoon salt and ½ teaspoon pepper to the skillet and cook over medium heat, stirring often, until the sausage is cooked through and the broccoli rabe is very tender, about 3 minutes.

- Add the pasta and ½ cup​ of the reserved pasta water, toss well, and cook over low heat until the sauce comes together, about 1 to 2 minutes. Add additional pasta water, a few tablespoons at a time, if needed for moisture.

- Remove the pan from the heat, add the butter, Parmesan, lemon zest and lemon juice, and toss until the butter is melted. Divide pasta among shallow bowls and top with additional cheese sprinkled on top.
