# Chicken Piccata

Source: NYTimes

<table class="tg"><thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky" colspan="2"><span style="font-weight:bold">Nutrition</span></th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Calories</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">492</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">33g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Saturated Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">13g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Monounsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">14g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Polyunsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">3g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Carbohydrates</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">9g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Fibre</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">2g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Sugar</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">2g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Protien</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">41g</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Ingredients (4 Servings)
- 4 boneless, skinless chicken breasts (about 700g), halved horizontally 
-  plain flour, for dredging
- 6 tbsp unsalted butter
- 3 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil, plus more as needed
- 1 shallot, peeled and sliced lengthwise
- 1 lemon, halved (half thinly sliced and seeds removed; half juiced, about 2 tbsp)
- 180ml chicken stock
- 4 tsp drained capers
- Coarsely chopped fresh parsley, for garnish (optional)
### Ingredients (1 Serving)
- 1 boneless, skinless chicken breast (about 170g), halved horizontally 
-  plain flour, for dredging
- 2 tbsp unsalted butter
- 1 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil, plus more as needed
- 1/2 shallot, peeled and sliced lengthwise
- 1/4 lemon, halved (half thinly sliced and seeds removed; half juiced, about 2 tbsp)
- 45ml chicken stock
- 1 tsp drained capers
- Coarsely chopped fresh parsley, for garnish (optional)

### Method
- Season both sides of the chicken with salt and pepper. Dredge the chicken in flour and shake off any excess.

- In a large skillet, heat 3 tablespoons butter and the olive oil over medium-high heat until the butter has melted. Working in batches to avoid crowding the pan, add the chicken and sauté until golden brown and cooked through, about 3 minutes per side.

- Remove the chicken, place on a plate and repeat with the remaining pieces, adding more olive oil if needed.

- Once the chicken is cooked, add the shallot and lemon slices to the pan and sauté, stirring occasionally, until lightly caramelized and fragrant, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the stock and simmer until reduced by half, about 3 minutes.

- Reduce the heat to low, then stir in the remaining 3 tablespoons butter, capers and lemon juice, to taste. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Serve the chicken with the sauce poured over the top. Garnish with parsley if desired.
