# Chimichurri Chicken 

Source: NYTimes

<table class="tg"><thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky" colspan="2"><span style="font-weight:bold">Nutrition</span></th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Calories</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">322</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">16g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Saturated Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Monounsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">8g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Polyunsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">2g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Carbohydrates</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">12g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Fibre</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">0g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Sugar</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">9g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Protien</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">32g</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Ingredients (4 Servings)
- 3 garlic cloves, peeled
- 1½ teaspoons kosher salt
- 60g parsley leaves and stems
- 30g fresh oregano leaves
- ½ teaspoon red-pepper flakes
- ½ teaspoon black pepper
- 3 tablespoons red-wine vinegar
- 115g extra-virgin olive oil
- 1kg boneless, skinless chicken thighs or breasts
- 1 tablespoon olive oil
#### Ingredients (1 Serving)
- 1 garlic clove, peeled
- ½ teaspoon kosher salt
- 15g parsley leaves and stems
- 8g fresh oregano leaves
- pinch red-pepper flakes
- pinch black pepper
- 1 tablespoon red-wine vinegar
- 30g extra-virgin olive oil
- 250g boneless, skinless chicken thighs or breasts
- 1 teaspoon olive oil

### Method
- Make the sauce: On a cutting board, smash and coarsely chop the garlic with ½ teaspoon salt. Mash the mixture using the side of your knife until a coarse paste forms. Move the paste to the side of the cutting board, then chop the parsley and oregano together with the remaining 1 teaspoon salt. Combine the garlic paste and the chopped herbs and chop and mash until the herbs are bruised and fragrant.

- Transfer to a medium bowl. Add the red-pepper flakes, black pepper, vinegar and extra-virgin olive oil; stir to combine.

- Make the chicken: Pat the chicken dry. If thickness varies greatly, pound to an even thickness, about ½-inch. Rub half the chimichurri all over the chicken and let sit for at least 10 minutes. (You could also refrigerate overnight; just let it come to room temperature before cooking.)

- Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high. Wipe off excess marinade from the chicken and cook until juices run clear, about 5 minutes per side for thighs and 4 minutes per side for breasts. (For grilling and oven instructions, see Tips below.)

- Serve with remaining chimichurri spooned over top.
