# Lemon Chicken

Source: NYTimes

<table class="tg"><thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky" colspan="2"><span style="font-weight:bold">Nutrition</span></th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Calories</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">396</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">18g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Saturated Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">6g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Monounsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">8g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Polyunsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">2g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Carbohydrates</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">16g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Fibre</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">1g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Sugar</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">1g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Protien</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">41g</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Ingredients (4 Servings)
- 65g flour for dredging
- 4 skinless boneless chicken breasts, about 170g each
- 2 tbsp olive oil
- 4 sprigs fresh thyme or 1 tsp dried
- 2 tbsp finely chopped shallots
- 2 tsp finely chopped garlic
- 2 tsp grated lemon zest
- 3 tbsp lemon juice
- 120ml chicken broth, fresh or canned
- 2 tbsp butter

### Ingredients (1 Serving)
- 15g flour for dredging
-  1 skinless boneless chicken breast, about 170g
- 2 tbsp olive oil
- 4 sprigs fresh thyme or 1/4 tsp dried
- ½ tbsp finely chopped shallots
- ½ tsp finely chopped garlic
- ½ tsp grated lemon zest
- 1 tbsp lemon juice
- 30ml chicken broth, fresh or canned
- ½ tbsp butter

### Method
- Season flour with salt and pepper, and dredge the chicken all over. Remove the excess flour.

- Heat the oil in a heavy skillet large enough to hold the chicken pieces in one layer. Add chicken and cook, uncovered, over medium heat for 5 minutes or until lightly browned.

- Flip the chicken and cook for 5 minutes more, or until cooked through. Carefully remove the oil from the skillet, leaving the chicken. Discard the oil.

- Add the thyme, shallots and garlic, and cook for about a minute. Do not burn the garlic. Add the lemon rind, the lemon juice and the broth.

- Scrape the skillet to dissolve the brown particles that cling to the bottom. Add the butter, and cook for 3 minutes longer. Serve immediately.
