# Chicken Marengo

Source: NYTimes

<table class="tg"><thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky" colspan="2"><span style="font-weight:bold">Nutrition</span></th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Calories</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">703</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">48g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Saturated Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">15g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Monounsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">21g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Polyunsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">9g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Carbohydrates</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">15g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Fibre</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Sugar</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">8g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Protien</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">48g</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Ingredients (4 Servings)
- 1.3kg chicken cut into serving pieces
- 2 tbsp butter
- 2 tbsp olive oil
- 230g thinly sliced mushrooms
- 80g finely chopped onion
- 2 cloves finely minced garlic
- 1 bay leaf
- 2 sprigs fresh thyme or ½ teaspoon dried
- 120ml dry white wine
- 2 cans chopped tomatoes
- 66g tomato paste
- 120ml chicken broth
- 2 sprigs fresh parsley

### Ingredients (1 Serving)
- 2 chicken thighs
- ½ tbsp butter
- ½ tbsp olive oil
- 60g thinly sliced mushrooms
- 20g finely chopped onion
- 1 clove finely minced garlic
- 1 bay leaf
- 1 sprig fresh thyme 
- 60ml dry white wine
- ½ can chopped tomatoes
- 20g tomato paste
- 30ml chicken broth
- 1 sprig fresh parsley

### Method
- Sprinkle the chicken with salt and pepper to taste.

- Heat the butter and oil in a heavy skillet over medium-high heat. Add the chicken pieces skin-side down. Cook until golden brown on one side, about five minutes. Turn the pieces and cook on the other side about two minutes. Pour off the fat from the skillet.

- Scatter the mushrooms over the chicken. Stir to distribute. Add the onion, garlic, bay leaf and thyme and cook about 5 minutes.

- Add the wine and scrape the bottom of the skillet with a wooden spoon to dissolve the brown particles that cling to the bottom of the pan. Add the tomatoes, tomato paste, chicken broth and parsley. Bring to the boil. Cover and cook 10 minutes. Serve with rice and a tossed green salad.
