# White Chicken Chilli

Source: NYTimes

<table class="tg"><thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky" colspan="2"><span style="font-weight:bold">Nutrition</span></th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Calories</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">658</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">27g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Saturated Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">7.5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Monounsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">12g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Polyunsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">4.5g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Carbohydrates</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">67.5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Fibre</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">13.5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Sugar</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">4.5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Protien</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">42g</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Ingredients (4 Servings)
- 2 tablespoons olive oil
- 1 large yellow onion, chopped
- 1 large jalapeño pepper, seeds and ribs removed, finely chopped
- 5 cloves garlic, minced
- 1 teaspoon dried oregano
- 1 teaspoon ground cumin
- ½teaspoon sweet paprika or chili powder
- Pinch of cayenne pepper, to taste
- 1L chicken broth
- 2 cans cannellini beans, rinsed and drained
- 2 cans diced green chiles
- 500g cooked shredded chicken
- 320g fresh or frozen corn kernels
- Half a lime, plus lime wedges for serving

### Ingredients (1 Serving)
- ½ tablespoons olive oil
- 1 small yellow onion, chopped
- 1 small jalapeño pepper, seeds and ribs removed, finely chopped
- 1 large clove garlic, minced
- ¼ teaspoon dried oregano
- ¼ teaspoon ground cumin
- pinch sweet paprika or chili powder
- Pinch of cayenne pepper, to taste
- 1L chicken broth
- ½  can cannellini beans, rinsed and drained
- ½  can diced green chiles
- 125g cooked shredded chicken
- 80g fresh or frozen corn kernels
- Half a lime, plus lime wedges for serving

### Method
- In a large Dutch oven or pot, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the onion and jalapeño and cook, stirring often, until the onions are tender, about 6 minutes. Add the garlic, oregano, cumin, paprika, cayenne, salt and a few grinds of black pepper, and cook for 1 minute, until fragrant.

- Add the chicken broth, cannellini beans and diced green chiles with their liquid; bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Lower the heat and simmer, stirring occasionally, until the broth has reduced by about half, 18 to 20 minutes. Off the heat, use a wooden spoon to mash some of the beans against the side of the pot. Continue mashing the beans until the broth is noticeably thicker.

- Return the pot to medium, stir in the chicken and corn, and cook until heated through, about 3 minutes. Juice the lime half over the pot, then taste for seasonings and add more salt, black pepper, and cayenne, if desired.

- Serve the chili in bowls topped as you like with a lime wedge, shredded cheese, pickled jalapeños, diced avocado, sour cream, chopped fresh cilantro, and/or crushed tortilla chips.
