# TLC001 - Chicken with Spicy Corn

Source: NYTimes

<table class="tg"><thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky" colspan="2"><span style="font-weight:bold">Nutrition</span></th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Calories</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">590</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">27g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Saturated Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">4.5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Monounsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">12g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Polyunsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">7.5g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Carbohydrates</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">40.5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Fibre</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">4.5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Sugar</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">6g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Protien</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">51g</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Ingredients (4 Servings)
- 1 kg boneless, skinless chicken thighs (roughly 8)
- 2 tablespoons mayonnaise
- 5g finely chopped basil, plus more for garnish
- 2 garlic cloves, finely grated or minced
- 80g chopped pickled jalapeños, plus brine from the jar
- 700g fresh or frozen corn kernels (from about 4 ears)
- 3 tbsp olive oil, plus more for drizzling
- 5 spring onions, thinly sliced
- 1 jalapeño, sliced into rings
- 1 lime, halved

### Ingredients (1 Serving)
- 250g boneless, skinless chicken thighs (roughly 2)
- 1 tsp mayonnaise
- 1g finely chopped basil, plus more for garnish
- 1 garlic clove, finely grated or minced
- 20g chopped pickled jalapeños, plus brine from the jar
- 175g fresh or frozen corn kernels 
- 1 tbsp olive oil, plus more for drizzling
- 1-1.5 spring onions, thinly sliced
- ${1\over 2}$ jalapeño, sliced into rings
- 1 lime, halved

### Method
- Season the chicken all over with salt and pepper. In a large bowl, stir together the mayonnaise, basil, garlic and the jalapeño brine. Add the chicken to the marinade. Cover and refrigerate for 30 minutes and up to 6 hours.

- Heat oven to 180. In a medium bowl, toss together corn, pickled jalapeños, olive oil, remaining 1 teaspoon salt and half of the spring onions (save remaining spring onions for serving).

- Arrange the chicken on a baking sheet, spacing it out. Roast for 12 minutes. Spoon the corn mixture onto the empty parts of the baking sheet. Drizzle chicken and corn with oil. Continue to roast until the chicken is cooked through, 10 to 15 minutes longer, stirring the corn once while roasting.

- Turn the broiler on high and broil the chicken and corn until golden brown in spots, 2 to 4 minutes (watch carefully so it doesn’t burn, though a little blistering is nice).

- Garnish chicken and corn with basil, remaining spring onions and fresh jalapeño slices. Sprinkle with more pickled jalapeño brine and squeeze with lime juice. Serve hot or at room temperature.
