# Chicken and Feta Meatball Soup

Source: NYTimes

<table class="tg"><thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky" colspan="2"><span style="font-weight:bold">Nutrition</span></th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Calories</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">426</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">23g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Saturated Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">7g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Monounsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">12g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Polyunsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">2g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Carbohydrates</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">24g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Fibre</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Sugar</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">3g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Protien</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">36g</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Ingredients (4 Servings)
- 500g ground chicken or turkey, preferably dark meat
- 120g crumbled feta
- 60g rolled oats
- 1 small red onion, halved (½ diced, and ½ grated, then squeezed with a paper towel to remove excess liquid)
- packet of fresh dill leaves and fine stems, finely chopped
- 1 tbsp ground cumin
- ½ tsp plus 1 tbsp ground turmeric
- 3 tbsp olive oil
- ½ tsp red-pepper flakes, plus more for serving
- 1L low-sodium chicken broth or water
- 150g baby spinach
- 2 lemons (1 juiced and 1 cut into wedges for serving)

### Method
- In a medium bowl, add the chicken, feta, 20g cup oats, the grated onion, most of the dill (reserve about 2 tbsp for garnish), the cumin, ½ tsp turmeric and 1 tsp salt. Gently combine without squeezing too hard or overworking the meat. Lightly wet your palms and shape the meat into small balls, a little smaller than the size of a golf ball, about 1½ inches​ (You will have approximately 25 balls.)

- Heat the oil in a large Dutch oven or wide pot over medium until shimmering. Add the diced onion, season with salt, and cook until it begins to soften, about 2 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add the remaining 1 tbsp turmeric and the red-pepper flakes, and stir until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Push the onions to the sides as best you can, then add the meatballs. (They will be close together, and that’s OK.) Cook until browned on two sides, 5 to 7 minutes total.

- Pour in the broth and remaining oats, then gently tilt the pot to the right and left to distribute the oats and broth without disturbing the meatballs. Bring to a gentle boil, then immediately reduce the heat to maintain an active simmer. Season with salt. Cook, gently stirring occasionally to make sure nothing is sticking to the bottom, until the oats have softened and the meatballs are cooked through, about 4 minutes more.

- Stir in the spinach and lemon juice until the spinach is wilted, about 2 minutes more. Adjust the seasoning to taste. Spoon into bowls, top with pepper and the remaining dill. Serve with lemon wedges.
