# Tuna Crunch Sandwiches

Source: NYTimes

<table class="tg"><thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky" colspan="2"><span style="font-weight:bold">Nutrition</span></th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Calories</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">581</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">38g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Saturated Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">6g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Monounsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">20g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Polyunsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">11g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Carbohydrates</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">35g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Fibre</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">3g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Sugar</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">6g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Protien</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">26g</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Ingredients (2 Servings)
- 1 can solid white albacore or skipjack tuna 
- 1 hard-boiled egg, peeled
- 1 celery rib, finely minced
- 3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 
- 2 tablespoons finely minced red onion, shallot or scallions
- 2 tablespoons finely minced fresh parsley, chives, tarragon or a mix 
- 2 tablespoons mayonnaise, plus more for spreading 
- 1 tablespoon sweet pickle relish or chopped dill pickles 
- 2 teaspoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
- A few large handfuls of hearty potato chips or corn chips 
- Salt and black pepper
- 4 slices thick, soft sandwich bread, such as Texas toast, toasted, if desired
- 2 lettuce leaves, such as iceberg, romaine, green leaf or Bibb

### Method
 - Drain the tuna and dump into a medium bowl.
 
 - Wash your hands well, then grab the boiled egg and squeeze it through your fingers into the bowl with the tuna. Add the celery, olive oil, onion, herbs (if using), mayonnaise, relish (if using) and lemon juice. Using a fork, gently fold together all the ingredients, trying to leave the tuna in relatively large chunks. Grab a few chips and, using your hands, crumble them into the bowl. Season lightly with salt and pepper, and fold again to combine. Taste and adjust seasoning to taste — more salt, pepper and lemon juice if it tastes bland, and more olive oil or mayonnaise if it tastes dry.

 - When ready for lunch, spread each slice of bread generously with mayonnaise. Place lettuce on each bottom slice of bread, then top each with half of the tuna salad mixture. Add a generous handful of potato chips on top of each (more than seems reasonable), then close the sandwiches. Press down firmly so the chips break and embed themselves into the tuna salad and the bread. Cut into triangles and serve with extra chips on the side.
