# Chicken Paprikash

Source: NYTimes

<table class="tg"><thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky" colspan="2"><span style="font-weight:bold">Nutrition</span></th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Calories</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">322</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">16g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Saturated Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Monounsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">8g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Polyunsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">2g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Carbohydrates</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">12g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Fibre</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">0g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Sugar</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">9g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Protien</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">32g</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Ingredients (6 Servings)
- 2kg chicken thighs and drumsticks, or whole chicken legs
- 1 tablespoon neutral oil, like canola
- 3 tablespoons unsalted butter
- 1 large yellow or Spanish onion, peeled and diced
- 3 cloves garlic, peeled and minced
- 3 tablespoons Hungarian paprika, sweet or hot, or a combination
- 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
- 1 cup​ canned crushed tomatoes or 1 large ripe tomato, chopped
- 1 cup chicken broth, homemade or, if not, low-sodium
- 500g egg noodles
- ¾ cup sour cream

### Ingredients (1 Serving)
- 1 chicken breast, halved lengthwise, or 1 chicken cutlet (125g ish)
- ½ tablespoon olive oil
- ½ tablespoon honey
- ½ tablespoon soy sauce
- ½ tablespoon apple cider, rice wine or white wine vinegar
- 1 to 2 large garlic cloves, minced or grated
- ½ tablespoon unsalted butter


### Method
- Pat the chicken dry. Season all over with salt and pepper.

- Heat the oil in a large (12-inch)​ skillet over medium-high for 1 to 2 minutes until hot and shimmering. Add the chicken and cook without moving until it’s golden brown on the bottom, about 5 minutes.

- Use tongs to flip the chicken and cook until just cooked through, about 4 minutes.

- While the chicken cooks on the second side, mix together 3 tablespoons of water, the honey and soy sauce in a measuring cup.

- Transfer the cooked chicken to a plate and set aside.

- Pour in the soy sauce mixture and let cook until the liquid reduces, about 1 minute. Add the vinegar, garlic and butter, stirring to melt and incorporate until thick and glossy, about 2 minutes more.

- Return the chicken to the pan, leaving behind any accumulated juices on the plate, and turn to coat in the sauce. If the sauce is too thick, add the accumulated juices, then serve immediately, garnishing with the parsley, if desired.
