# BA004 - Banana Bread
Source: NYTimes

<table class="tg"><thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky" colspan="2"><span style="font-weight:bold">Nutrition</span></th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Calories</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">375</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">14g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Saturated Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">0g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Monounsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">3.5g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Polyunsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">1g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Carbohydrates</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">58g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Fibre</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">2.5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Sugar</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">27.5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Protien</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">5g</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Ingredients (8 Servings)
- 2 large eggs
- 4 medium ripe bananas, mashed
- 115 grams unsalted butter, melted and slightly cooled
- 165 grams light brown sugar
- 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
- 57 grams sour cream
- 256 grams plain flour
- 1 teaspoon baking soda
- ½ teaspoon salt
- ½ teaspoon ground cinnamon

### Method
- Heat the oven to 180 degrees. Grease an 8- or 9-inch​ loaf pan with nonstick spray and line the bottom with parchment paper.

- In a large bowl, whisk together the eggs, bananas, butter, brown sugar and vanilla until smooth (a few lumps of banana are OK). Stir in the sour cream.

- In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda, salt and cinnamon.

- Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients and mix just until the flour is fully incorporated, making sure to scrape the bottom of the bowl.

- Transfer the batter to the prepared pan, smoothing the surface into an even layer with a spatula, and bake for 55 to 65 minutes, until a toothpick inserted into the center of the loaf comes out clean.

- Cool for 20 minutes in the pan. Run a paring knife around the sides of the banana bread and remove the loaf, transferring it to a wire rack to finish cooling. Peel off the parchment paper before slicing. Serve warm or at room temperature. Banana bread will keep for up to 3 days, covered, at room temperature.
