# BA005 - Sugar Bread
Source: /u/Spicy_Axolotl

<table class="tg"><thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky" colspan="2"><span style="font-weight:bold">Nutrition</span></th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Calories</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">267</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">11g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Saturated Fat</td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">Monounsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-v7lt">4g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Polyunsaturated fat<br></td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">1g<br></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Carbohydrates</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">34g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Fibre</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">1g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">Sugar</td>
    <td class="tg-bbuu">5g</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Protien</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">7g</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Ingredients
Sweet bread dough:
- 390g Flour
- 30g skim milk powder
- 3/4 tsp salt
- 2 tbsp packed brown sugar
- 3/4 tsp yeast
- 230ml water
- 15 g Butter
 
Topping:
- 1 can evaporated milk
- 100g sugar
- 20g butter
- 2.5 tbsp cornstarch slurry
- 1 tsp Vanilla
- 1 tsp Cinnam

### Method


 - Combine flour, skim milk powder, salt, sugar and yeast in stand mixer bowl and stir together, add Water and mix until you get a shaggy dough. Add more water if necessary. Knead on low and add in small bits of butter. Continue mixing until a smooth dough forms.

 - Cover and let rise for 1 to 15. hours.

 - Combine evaporated milk, sugar and butter in a sauce pan and place over medium heat. Stir continuously until sugar is melted and it is beginning to bubble. Add in corn starch slurry and, still stirring, cook while simmering until thickened. Remove from heat and stir in vanilla. let cool, stirring occasionally to prevent lumps. Cover the surface with plastic wrap to prevent a skin forming.

 - After the first rise punch down air. Grease a 10 in​ springform pan. Place dough in pan and spread evenly. Cover and let rise again for 45 min - 1 hour until light and airy.

 - Preheat oven to 350 during last 15 min of rise

 - After second rise is done poke the dough deeply all over with fingers to make dimples. Pour on the pudding and spread evenly, right to the edges. Sprinkle the top with cinnamon. Place on a thin baking sheet and bake for 40 minutes until internal temp of bread is at least 195 f.

 - Allow to cool for 10 minutes and remove from pan, finish cooling on rack.
